docs/index.asciidoc, before:

:plugin: syslog
:type: input

///////////////////////////////////////////
START - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////
:version: %VERSION%
:release_date: %RELEASE_DATE%
:changelog_url: %CHANGELOG_URL%
:include_path: ../../../../logstash/docs/include
///////////////////////////////////////////
END - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}"]

=== Syslog input plugin

include::{include_path}/plugin_header.asciidoc[]

==== Description

Read syslog messages as events over the network.

This input is a good choice if you already use syslog today.
It is also a good choice if you want to receive logs from
appliances and network devices where you cannot run your own
log collector.

Of course, 'syslog' is a very muddy term. By default, this input only
supports `RFC3164` syslog with some small modifications. However, some
non-standard syslog formats can be read and parsed if a functional
`grok_pattern` is provided. The date format is still only allowed to be
`RFC3164` style or `ISO8601`.

For more information see the http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3164.txt[RFC3164 page].

Note: This input will start listeners on both TCP and UDP.


[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-options"]
==== Syslog Input Configuration Options

This plugin supports the following configuration options plus the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> described later.

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Setting |Input type|Required
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-facility_labels>> |<<array,array>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-grok_pattern>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-host>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-locale>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-port>> |<<number,number>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-proxy_protocol>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-severity_labels>> |<<array,array>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-timezone>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-use_labels>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
|=======================================================================

Also see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> for a list of options supported by all
input plugins.

&nbsp;

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-facility_labels"]
===== `facility_labels`

  * Value type is <<array,array>>
  * Default value is `["kernel", "user-level", "mail", "system", "security/authorization", "syslogd", "line printer", "network news", "UUCP", "clock", "security/authorization", "FTP", "NTP", "log audit", "log alert", "clock", "local0", "local1", "local2", "local3", "local4", "local5", "local6", "local7"]`

Labels for facility levels. These are defined in RFC3164.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-grok_pattern"]
===== `grok_pattern`

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * Default value is `"<%{POSINT:priority}>%{SYSLOGLINE}"`

The default value should read and properly parse syslog lines which are
fully compliant with http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3164.txt[RFC3164].

You can override this value to parse non-standard lines with a valid grok
pattern which will parse the received lines.  If the line is unable to
be parsed, the `_grokparsefailure_sysloginput` tag will be added.

The grok pattern must provide a `timestamp` field. If the `timestamp`
field is omitted, or is unable to be parsed as `RFC3164` style or
`ISO8601`, a `_dateparsefailure` tag will be added.


[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-host"]
===== `host`

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * Default value is `"0.0.0.0"`

The address to listen on.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-locale"]
===== `locale`

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

Specify a locale to be used for date parsing using either IETF-BCP47 or POSIX language tag.
Simple examples are `en`,`en-US` for BCP47 or `en_US` for POSIX.
If not specified, the platform default will be used.

The locale is mostly necessary to be set for parsing month names (pattern with MMM) and
weekday names (pattern with EEE).


[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-port"]
===== `port`

  * Value type is <<number,number>>
  * Default value is `514`

The port to listen on. Remember that ports less than 1024 (privileged
ports) may require root to use.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-proxy_protocol"]
===== `proxy_protocol`

  * Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
  * Default value is `false`

Proxy protocol support, only v1 is supported at this time
http://www.haproxy.org/download/1.5/doc/proxy-protocol.txt

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-severity_labels"]
===== `severity_labels`

  * Value type is <<array,array>>
  * Default value is `["Emergency", "Alert", "Critical", "Error", "Warning", "Notice", "Informational", "Debug"]`

Labels for severity levels. These are defined in RFC3164.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-timezone"]
===== `timezone`

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

Specify a time zone canonical ID to be used for date parsing.
The valid IDs are listed on the [Joda.org available time zones page](http://joda-time.sourceforge.net/timezones.html).
This is useful in case the time zone cannot be extracted from the value,
and is not the platform default.
If this is not specified the platform default will be used.
Canonical ID is good as it takes care of daylight saving time for you
For example, `America/Los_Angeles` or `Europe/France` are valid IDs.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-use_labels"]
===== `use_labels`

  * Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
  * Default value is `true`

Use label parsing for severity and facility levels.



[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options"]
include::{include_path}/{type}.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Add syslog_field functionality
This will better support the syslog input plugin in conjunction with codecs

fixes #48

docs/index.asciidoc, after:

:plugin: syslog
:type: input

///////////////////////////////////////////
START - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////
:version: %VERSION%
:release_date: %RELEASE_DATE%
:changelog_url: %CHANGELOG_URL%
:include_path: ../../../../logstash/docs/include
///////////////////////////////////////////
END - GENERATED VARIABLES, DO NOT EDIT!
///////////////////////////////////////////

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}"]

=== Syslog input plugin

include::{include_path}/plugin_header.asciidoc[]

==== Description

Read syslog messages as events over the network.

This input is a good choice if you already use syslog today.
It is also a good choice if you want to receive logs from
appliances and network devices where you cannot run your own
log collector.

Of course, 'syslog' is a very muddy term. By default, this input only
supports `RFC3164` syslog with some small modifications. However, some
non-standard syslog formats can be read and parsed if a functional
`grok_pattern` is provided. The date format is still only allowed to be
`RFC3164` style or `ISO8601`.

For more information see the http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3164.txt[RFC3164 page].

Note: This input will start listeners on both TCP and UDP.


[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-options"]
==== Syslog Input Configuration Options

This plugin supports the following configuration options plus the <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> described later.

[cols="<,<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Setting |Input type|Required
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-facility_labels>> |<<array,array>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-grok_pattern>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-host>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-locale>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-port>> |<<number,number>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-proxy_protocol>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-severity_labels>> |<<array,array>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-syslog_field>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-timezone>> |<<string,string>>|No
| <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-use_labels>> |<<boolean,boolean>>|No
|=======================================================================

Also see <<plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options>> for a list of options supported by all
input plugins.

&nbsp;

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-facility_labels"]
===== `facility_labels`

  * Value type is <<array,array>>
  * Default value is `["kernel", "user-level", "mail", "system", "security/authorization", "syslogd", "line printer", "network news", "UUCP", "clock", "security/authorization", "FTP", "NTP", "log audit", "log alert", "clock", "local0", "local1", "local2", "local3", "local4", "local5", "local6", "local7"]`

Labels for facility levels. These are defined in RFC3164.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-grok_pattern"]
===== `grok_pattern`

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * Default value is `"<%{POSINT:priority}>%{SYSLOGLINE}"`

The default value should read and properly parse syslog lines which are
fully compliant with http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3164.txt[RFC3164].

You can override this value to parse non-standard lines with a valid grok
pattern which will parse the received lines.  If the line is unable to
be parsed, the `_grokparsefailure_sysloginput` tag will be added.

The grok pattern must provide a `timestamp` field. If the `timestamp`
field is omitted, or is unable to be parsed as `RFC3164` style or
`ISO8601`, a `_dateparsefailure` tag will be added.


[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-host"]
===== `host`

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * Default value is `"0.0.0.0"`

The address to listen on.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-locale"]
===== `locale`

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

Specify a locale to be used for date parsing using either IETF-BCP47 or POSIX language tag.
Simple examples are `en`,`en-US` for BCP47 or `en_US` for POSIX.
If not specified, the platform default will be used.

The locale is mostly necessary to be set for parsing month names (pattern with MMM) and
weekday names (pattern with EEE).


[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-port"]
===== `port`

  * Value type is <<number,number>>
  * Default value is `514`

The port to listen on. Remember that ports less than 1024 (privileged
ports) may require root to use.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-proxy_protocol"]
===== `proxy_protocol`

  * Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
  * Default value is `false`

Proxy protocol support, only v1 is supported at this time
http://www.haproxy.org/download/1.5/doc/proxy-protocol.txt

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-severity_labels"]
===== `severity_labels`

  * Value type is <<array,array>>
  * Default value is `["Emergency", "Alert", "Critical", "Error", "Warning", "Notice", "Informational", "Debug"]`

Labels for severity levels. These are defined in RFC3164.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-syslog_field"]
===== `syslog_field`

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * Default value is `"message"`

Codecs process the data before the rest of the data is parsed. Some codecs,
like CEF, put the syslog data into another field after pre-processing the
data.  Use this option in conjunction with the `grok_pattern` configuration
to allow the syslog input plugin to fully parse the syslog data in this case.

[source,sh]
-------
input {
  syslog {
    port => 12345
    codec => cef
    syslog_field => "syslog"
    grok_pattern => "<%{POSINT:priority}>%{SYSLOGTIMESTAMP:timestamp} CUSTOM GROK HERE"
  }
}
-------

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-timezone"]
===== `timezone`

  * Value type is <<string,string>>
  * There is no default value for this setting.

Specify a time zone canonical ID to be used for date parsing.
The valid IDs are listed on the [Joda.org available time zones page](http://joda-time.sourceforge.net/timezones.html).
This is useful in case the time zone cannot be extracted from the value,
and is not the platform default.
If this is not specified the platform default will be used.
Canonical ID is good as it takes care of daylight saving time for you
For example, `America/Los_Angeles` or `Europe/France` are valid IDs.

[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-use_labels"]
===== `use_labels`

  * Value type is <<boolean,boolean>>
  * Default value is `true`

Use label parsing for severity and facility levels.



[id="plugins-{type}s-{plugin}-common-options"]
include::{include_path}/{type}.asciidoc[]
